By

An Energica Experia electric motorcycle   spotted   Tesla Supercharger   opening   charging network   electric vehicles.

News  Tesla opening  fabled Supercharger Network   United States   met   combination  excitement  dread. But    doubt     coolest     charge   Tesla Supercharger   electric motorcycle. An Energica Experia  spotted charging   Tesla Supercharger  California earlier today.

Posted  Reddit user /BonesJackson,  Energica Experia   charging   Tesla Supercharger  Scotts Valley, California.

The Experia, Energica’ newest model,   ADV set     likes   BMW R1250,  Ducati Multistrada,    DSRX  rival electric motorcycle maker Zero Motorcycles.

Teslarati   touch   bike owner,   plenty  great      newest electric bike. Kelly,  bike owner,  owned numerous motorcycles    good assortment  electric . However,       Experia    segment-leading battery capacity   comfortable upright posture. Beyond ,  Energia’ reliability,  torque,  environmentally friendly nature,   ,  fun   mountains   Kelly’ top choice.

Unfortunately, Kelly   draw 7kW   Tesla Supercharger,  speed    times slower   average  mid-20kW   DC fast charging locations. This   due   bike    recognized   charger   incompatibility   bike’  computer;  owner wasn’ .

Luckily,  Energica didn’    spot   long. Thanks   smaller battery   high charging speed   form factor,  Energica Experia advertises   charge  0-80%  roughly 40 minutes. Kelly   regularly achieves 20-80%   30 minutes.

Much   EVs  Ford, Rivian,  ,  Energica gained access   Tesla Supercharging network    CCS2 connector   Tesla Magic Dock   customers  charge .

Following  opening   Supercharger Network, opinions   split   community     affect  Tesla charging experience. It’  secret  Tesla charging  quickly reached  carrying capacity   densely populated areas,   worst cases forcing owners  wait  line  charge  hours. At   time,  view Tesla’ move      EV adoption,    United States,  charging anxiety runs rampant.

What      article? Do    comments, questions,  concerns? Shoot   email  william@teslarati.. You   reach   Twitter @WilliamWritin. If   news tips, email   tips@teslarati.!

Tesla Superchargers   attracting electric motorcycles