Elon Musk’ Tesla Inc. spent  $28 billion  cement    world’  valuable car company. It   preparing  invest roughly  times    strives  meet   objective: Becoming  world’ largest car maker  volume.

Chief Financial Officer Zach Kirkhorn  publicly    time  Wednesday  Tesla    spend  $150 billion   achieve  long-term goals,  includes selling 20 million vehicles  year. Today’ largest auto maker sells roughly   annually,  Tesla delivered  1.3 million vehicles  customers globally  year.

Tesla leadership,   presentation  investors gathered   company’ Austin-area factory, spoke    scale   company’ ambitions     overcome hurdles, including reducing manufacturing costs. What stood ,    ,    didn’ talk   detail:   vehicle.

Tesla hinted  coming models, displaying  slide   vehicles cloaked  sheets,  sharing specifics. Wall Street   clamoring  details   Tesla  introduce  ,  expensive car   expand  reach.

TESLA TO CUT COSTS OF NEXT-GENERATION VEHICLES IN HALF WITH INNOVATIVE MANUFACTURING, SMALLER FACTORIES

Wells Fargo analysts called  disappointing  "   reveal, timeline,   basic product description    gen model."

The company  offers -passenger vehicles,   — Cybertruck pickup—slated  hit  market   year. The  expensive   offerings  priced    $40,000   U.S.

It   jumping  gun, Mr. Musk ,  discuss  coming vehicle,   company    separate product event. However,    underscored  importance  affordability.

TESLA INVESTOR DAY: MUSK'S BIGGEST MOVES

Any ,  affordable model    contribute meaningfully  Tesla’ sales  2025   earliest, Bernstein Research analyst Toni Sacconaghi Jr.    note  investors. In  ,  , Tesla     prices  hit  growth targets.

Tesla shares slumped   6%  Thursday trading.

Mr. Musk,  chief executive, confirmed plans  build   factory  Mexico  expanding  company’ existing plants. Tesla   vehicles   U.S., China  Germany. Mr. Musk    company     roughly  dozen factories  meet  long-term sales goal.

California Gov. Gavin Newsom  Tesla CEO Elon Musk announced  location   company’  global engineering headquarters. The facility      computer-maker Hewlett Packard building  Palo Alto. Photo: Tesla

Tesla  build  -generation vehicle  Mexico  ,  company .

Mr. Kirkhorn,  CFO,   investment forecast    $175 billion, including  $28 billion  spent,  intended  illustrate  feasibility  Tesla’ goals.

"We  choose  vertically integrate   . We  find efficiencies ,"  .

Meanwhile, Tesla     business  making  materials needed  produce  battery cells  power  electric vehicles. It broke ground   lithium refinery  Corpus Christi, Texas,   building  battery materials facility   Austin area,  Drew Baglino,  company’ senior vice president  powertrain  energy engineering.

"We     accelerate  pace   industry          bit  scalable  de-risking  innovations  improve productivity," Mr. Baglino .

Ticker Security Last Change Change % TSLA TESLA INC. 190.90 -11.87 -5.85%

Tesla  expanding   position  relative financial strength. The company  weathered periods  extreme financial strain, narrowly avoiding bankruptcy  2008   roughly  decade    struggled  ramp  production   Model 3 sedan, Mr. Musk  . Now, Tesla  sitting   war chest   $22 billion  cash  short-term investments.

TESLA READIES REVAMP OF MODEL Y CODENAMED 'JUNIPER' – SOURCES

The company,   reported 14 profitable quarters   row, slashed vehicle prices earlier  year—   20%   U.S.— concerns  sagging demand. It   nudged  prices  . Tesla   " small    price   big effect  demand,  big," Mr. Musk .

He  dismissed  notion  Tesla  struggle  find buyers. "Demand   vehicles,  terms  desire   ,     infinite,"  .

Unleashing  demand  require cost reductions, , Tesla powertrain engineering leader Colin Campbell . "If     EVs  accessible  people,     cheaper,"  . "We    cost products    efficient  compelling       scale."

Scaling  manufacturing hasn’   easy  Tesla. The company faced "production hell"   early days  making  Model 3. At  point  year, Mr. Musk called  company’  factories  Germany  Texas "gigantic money furnaces." It   Tesla  decades  produce  million vehicles.

CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX BUSINESS APP

On Wednesday, Mr. Musk reflected   challenge .

"The hard part  building  cars   entire supply chain     cars. This   logistics challenge  extraordinary difficulty,"  .