Non-Tesla electric vehicles  officially start fueling   Tesla Supercharger stations   US.

On Feb. 28, Tesla announced  select stations   fitted  adapters   brand EVs,  drivers  California, Texas, New York   states  reported   successfully.

Earlier  February,  White House issued guidance  EV manufacturers  wanted  receive federal funding     chargers brand-agnostic. That  month, Tesla announced  plan  open   3,500 Superchargers   vehicles.

Read : Bank  America Will Now Finance Your Home EV Charger

In 2021,  $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill set  $7.5 billion  create  network  500,000 public EV chargers  2030,   high-traffic highways   densely populated residential areas.

Tesla    companies financing  project,   combination  private money  federal subsidies.

Where  I charge  -Tesla EV   Tesla Supercharger?

S&P Global Mobility estimates ,   January 2023,    17,000 Superchargers  Tesla destination chargers   US.

The company  released information      Superchargers     -Telsa EVs    scan  area  usable stations   Tesla app.

Tesla  promised     3,500   stations    electric vehicles     2024,    4,000 Level 2 charging docks.

How  I charge  -Telsa EV   Supercharger?

Tesla  retrofitted select stations   "Magic Dock,"  CCS1 adapter     top  Tesla' NACS plug  enables -Tesla EVs  charge   maximum rate  250 kW.



To   Supercharger:

Download  Tesla app  create  account.

Select "Charge Your Non-Tesla"  find  nearby Supercharger site.

Add  payment method, select  stall, unlock  adapter  plug   car.

Tap "Start Charging."

Select "Stop Charging"  complete  session.

How  I pay   Tesla Supercharger?

Payment     Tesla app.



Each Supercharger post   label   unique identifier. If     cable  post 4A,  , select post 4A   Tesla app   charging.



Non-Tesla drivers   pay     sign    monthly $13 membership. The subscription    discounted rate,  '  higher   Tesla owners pay.

That'     "additional costs incurred  support charging  broad range  vehicles  adjustments   sites  accommodate  vehicles," Tesla    blog post.

According   company, rates vary  location.

Do I    pay idle fees?

Yes,   incur  charge   leave  vehicle plugged   long "  ensure stalls  open    charge,"  Tesla.





